.TH SETLEDS 1 "09 Oct 1997" "Console tools" "Linux User's Manual"

.SH NAME
setleds \- set the keyboard leds

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setleds
.BI [ "-v" "] [" "-L" "] [" "-D" "] [" "-F" ]
.BI [ {+|-}num "] [" {+|-}caps "] [" {+|-}scroll ]
.IX "setleds command" "" "\fLsetleds\fR command"  

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B setleds
reports and changes the led flag settings of the current VT (namely NumLock,
CapsLock and ScrollLock). Without arguments,
.B setleds
prints the current settings. With arguments, it sets or clears the indicated
flags (and leaves the others unchanged). The settings before and after the
change are reported if the 
.B \-v
flag is given.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-F
This is the default. Only change the VT flags (and their setting may be
reflected by the keyboard leds).
.TP
.I \-D
Change both the VT flags and their default settings (so that a subsequent
reset will not undo the change). This might be useful for people who always
want to have numlock set.
.TP
.I \-L
Do not touch the VT flags, but only change the leds. From this moment on, the
leds will no longer reflect the VT flags (but display whatever is put into
them). The command
.B "setleds \-L"
(without further arguments) will restore the situation in which the leds
reflect the VT flags.
.TP
.I \-num \+num
Clear or set NumLock.
(At present, the NumLock setting influences the
interpretation of keypad keys.
Pressing the NumLock key complements the NumLock setting.)
.TP
.I \-caps \+caps
Clear or set CapsLock.
(At present, the CapsLock setting complements the Shift key
when applied to letters.
Pressing the CapsLock key complements the CapsLock setting.)
.TP
.I \-scroll \+scroll
Clear or set ScrollLock.
(At present, pressing the ScrollLock key (or ^S/^Q) stops/starts
console output.)

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
One might use
.B setleds
in /etc/rc to define the initial and default state of NumLock,
e.g. by
.PP
.RS
INITTY=/dev/tty[1\-8]
.br
for tty in $INITTY; do
.RS
setleds \-D \+num < $tty
.RE
done
.RE

.SH BUGS
In keyboard application mode the NumLock key does not influence the NumLock
flag setting.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR loadkeys (1).
