NcFTP is a free set of programs that use the File
Transfer Protocol.  It's been around for UNIX for quite
some time now (circa 1992) and many people still use
the program and contribute suggestions and feedback.
There have also been unofficial ports of NcFTP for
Windows, but this is the first official port.

The main program is simply called "ncftp".  There are
also separate utility programs for one-shot FTP
operations (i.e. for shell scripts and command line
junkies);  these include "ncftpget", "ncftpput", and
"ncftpls".  Run each command without any arguments to
see the usage screen, or read the man page.

Also included is a batch processing daemon,
"ncftpbatch",which is invoked by the "bgget" command
from "ncftp" and also the "-b" flag of "ncftpput" and
"ncftpget".

Lastly, the "ncftpbookmarks" program is a utility program
to manipulate user's FTP bookmarks.

As always, your feedback and input is welcome; Visit
http://www.ncftp.com/support/ .  Unfortunately I can't
guarantee a response due to the volume of mail, so I
thank you in advance.

If you are one of the many people since 1992 to find
NcFTP Client useful, we would appreciate a donation,
which you can start by clicking the link below.
Your support allows us to keep maintaining the project!

    http://www.ncftp.com/ncftp/donate.html

Mike Gleason
NcFTP Software
http://www.ncftp.com
