How to start using the SG810 development image
------------------------------------------------

These instructions document how to install the SG810 image onto a 
compact flash card, with intent to be used on the Nexgate NSA1086 
hardware.

Requirements:

 * A 64MB or 128MB compact flash card,
 * A copy of SG810-CF-64MB.bin.gz or SG810-CF-128MB.bin.gz depending 
       your CF card size,
 * A Linux system with CF writer.

1. WRITING THE IMAGE

The SG810 image is simply a CF disk image that has been compressed 
using gzip. All we essentially need to do is write the decompressed 
image directly onto the card.

SG development uses a USB CF writer to write to the CF cards. Using 
this setup first connect the CF card writer to the linux system and 
then look at the system log to see where the CF card has been mapped.

On my RedHat 9 system I see the following messages appear when I 
connect the CF writer to my host:    

    hub.c: new USB device 00:02.0-3, assigned address 2
    usb.c: USB device 2 (vend/prod 0x58f/0x9321) is not claimed by any 
    active driver.
    SCSI subsystem driver Revision: 1.00
    Initializing USB Mass Storage driver...
    usb.c: registered new driver usb-storage
    scsi0 : SCSI emulation for USB Mass Storage devices
      Vendor: Generic   Model: USB CF Reader     Rev: 2.00
      Type:   Direct-Access                      ANSI SCSI revision: 02
    WARNING: USB Mass Storage data integrity not assured
    USB Mass Storage device found at 2
    USB Mass Storage support registered.
    Attached scsi removable disk sda at scsi0, channel 0, id 0, lun 0
    SCSI device sda: 125440 512-byte hdwr sectors (64 MB)
    sda: Write Protect is off
     sda: sda1

The last line, "sda: sda1", tells that the CF card has been mapped to
/dev/sda.

Next, you need to decompress and write the correct image to the CF
card. The following commands assume you are using a 64MB CF card,
if you have a 128MB card subsistute SG810-CF-128MB.bin for 
SG810-CF-64MB.bin:

    gunzip SG810-CF-64MB.bin.gz
    su -c "dd if=SG810-CF-64MB.bin of=/dev/sda"

Make sure that the "sda" in "/dev/sda" matches up with the the line 
you saw above in the system log.

3. BOOTING THE IMAGE

If you are using the NSA1086, first check that the CF card is set to
be the IDE master by connecting a jumper across pins 1 and 2 on J18 
(as referred to in the NSB1086 Quick Reference Guide). Install the CF
card with the SG810 image into the CF slot on the NSA1086. 

The SG810 image can be used with either a vga or a serial console. 

If you have monitor and keyboard connected to the NSA1086 during boot
then after the BIOS messages are displayed, a standard LILO prompt 
will be displayed on screen. Typing 'vga' at this prompt will
configure the boot to use the monitor as the system console. 

If 'serial' is typed, or if a 15 second timeout expires, then a serial
port at the front of the unit will be used as a system console. In 
this case a PC with a null-modem cable and terminal emulation 
software can be connected at 9600 baud to see the console output.

The system should then boot as a SG unit. 
 
