The files in this directory should let you build
uClinux 2.4.x for Sony Clie PEG-T615C PalmOS
handheld device. It would probably also work for
other Dragonball-based devices with enough RAM.

The crt code and other things are mixed and matched
from the other Dragonball-based boards and the Palm
Loader for the Palm III/Palm V devices. Some info
had to be pulled out from the disassembly of the
Clie ROM.

If your prc file size exceeds 2Mb limit, you will
have to make some minor changes to PalmLoader.c
and the crt code (move everything by 1kb for each
extra megabyte of the prc).

There is no splash screen when Linux boots, since
Sony apparently does not use the standard Dragonball
LCD controller, but rather an extra chip. I could
not get any documentation for it, so no LCD at the
moment.

In order to get the thing working:

0. Get a serial cable for your Clie (the vendor
supplied one is USB)

1. Back up all data from Clie

2. Get uClinux, install and configure the build
environment

3. Get Palm development environment (prc-tools,
pilrc, palmos sdk). This is needed to be able to
build palm-loader

4. Configure and build the kernel and the prc
file

5. Install the prc file on Clie

6. Connect a terminal at 9600 baud (8 bit, no
parity, one stop bit) and execute Palm Loader on
Clie. Observe the Linux boot messages and root
prompt. Happy hacking!

---

08/04/2004
Anton Solovyev
anton@solovyev.com
