.TH Tmsnc 1 "November 2005" "Texbased MSN Client"
.SH NAME
tmsnc \- Textbased MSN client for UNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmsnc
[-l address] [-i status] [-uv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmsnc
is a textbased chat client that uses the MSN protocol. The interface
is written in the Ncurses library and the SSL part in OpenSSL. This makes
the program very portable and it should be able to run on any UNIX-like system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-l ADDRESS"
Login with the specified
.I ADDRESS
.TP
.BI "\-u"
Check for updates.
.TP
.BI "\-i STATUS"
Set initial presence status to
.I STATUS
where
.I STATUS
is "online", "away", "brb", "busy", "idle", "phone", "lunch" or "hidden".   
.TP
.BI "\-v"
Display version information.

.SH MENU
Use TAB to switch between the different lists and windows in the interface.
To pull down a menu, press enter. To choose one of the menu items, go up and down
with the arrow keys and then press enter to execute the command.

.SH TALKFILTERS
To enable translation of outgoing messages using talkfilters, you first have to install
libtalkfilters (http://www.hyperrealm.com/main.php?s=talkfilters) and re-compile tmsnc.
Then you go to the "Actions->Set filter" menu-item. Enter one of the following filter-names:
austro, b1ff, brooklyn, chef, cockney, drawl, dubya, fudd, funetak, jethro, jive, kraut, pansy, 
pirate, postmodern, redneck, valspeak, or warez. You can also disable talkfilters by 
typing in "none". Now all your outgoing messages will get translated.

.SH CONTACT LIST
Use the arrow keys to choose a contact. Press enter to initialize a conversation.
While having a contact selected you can go to the menu and choose
.B Contacts->Set custom nick
to give the selected contact a custom nickname.
Similarily while having a contact selected you can un-set the custom nickname
by choosing the menu-item 
.B Contacts->Un-set custom nick
.
.TP
In the contact list you can use the following short-cut keys.
.TP
.BI "a"
Add the selected contact (or if it is already added then add a new contact).
.TP
.BI "d"
Delete the selected contact.
.TP
.BI "b"
Block the selected contact.
.TP
.BI "u"
Un-block the selected contact.
.TP
.BI "i"
Invite contact to the current conversation.
.TP
.BI "I"
Display information about the selected contact.


.SH CONVERSATION LIST
To switch to an open conversation, select the conversation with the 
arrow keys and press enter. A conversation will be marked green
if there are unread messages.
.SH SHORTCUT KEYS
.TP
.BI "alt-c"
Close the current conversation.
.TP
.BI "alt-<number>"
Switch to the conversation represented by <number>. If <number> is 0,
the console-window will be activated.
.TP
.BI "alt-a"
Focus on the menu.
.TP
.BI "alt-s"
Focus on the contact list.
.TP
.BI "alt-x"
Focus on the conversation list.
.TP
.BI "alt-z"
Focus on the chat window.
.SH POWER FUNCTIONS
To bring up the prompt to enter a power-command, press ctrl-p.
.TP
Available commands:
.TP
.BI "block all"
Block all contacts.
.TP
.BI "unblock all"
Unblock all contacts.
.TP
.BI "remove all"
Remove all contacts. WARNING: This command is not reversable.
.TP
.BI "whoami"
Displays who you are currently logged in as.
.TP
.BI "export conlist"
Write contact-list to a file.
.TP
.BI "import conlist"
Read contact-list from a file.

.SH CURRENT PLAYING SONG
In order to display your current playing song you have to enable it
in ~/.tmsnc/tmsnc.conf first. Uncomment the display_current_song option.
TMSNC updates the current playing song every 15 seconds by executing
~/.tmsnc/current_song.sh. The output is sent the song's name.

Look here for sample shell scripts:
.sp
.I
http://tmsnc.sourcefore.net/csong.html


.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.tmsnc/tmsnc.conf
Configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.tmsnc/aliases.conf
Aliases file
.TP
.I ~/.tmsnc/logs/
Conversation logs
.SH AUTHORS/CREDITS
.B tmsnc
was mainly written by Sanoi
.B <sanoix@gmail.com>
.sp
Tmsnc is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the IR Public Domain License as published by
the IR Group; either version 1.6 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

The program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

You should have received a copy of the IR Public Domain License
along with this program; if not, write to sanoix@gmail.com.

